
	Benjamin Franklin once said that there are only two certainties in life, taxes and death. While the former of these is more of a satirical remark on governmental practices, the latter is a very real thing. Whether it be the worry of meeting an early end on your morning commute or worrying about your weight, death colors most things in life a little darker. In modern society, death is viewed in a multitude of ways. There are those who mourn it, those who celebrate it, and those who treat it as merely a part of life, and this last approach tends to be more common in societies where death itself is more prevalent. Take the early 20th century for example, death was more common, and the rather lackadaisical view of it is prevalent in the writings of the time. The Egyptian Gazette that we have been examining over the course of the semester presents the death of the citizens of Alexandria in this way, but rather than cover their methods, I am more concerned with the deaths themselves. Put simply, I want to find out how many deaths occurred in Alexandria in the year of 1905. In this essay, I will start out by giving a more in depth explanation of this question before moving on to my search methods then move on to the examination of my research. 
	As I stated in my introduction, the goal of my research is to see how many people died in the city of Alexandria during the year of 1905. However, my research does not merely stop there. Once I have determined the number of the deaths, I want to categorize them. So far, from my preliminary research, I have been able to formulate four basic categories; disease, murders and executions, suicide, and other. The disease category is rather self-explanatory, it includes all citizens killed by disease during the year. Murders and executions I grouped together because most, if not all, of the executions reported on by the Gazette were due to murders. Suicide I believe to be another rather self-explanatory category. It includes the suicides that happened in Alexandria over the given time period. The final category is a bit of an oddball. It includes all other deaths that happened in Alexandria in 1905 whether they be drownings, accidents, or natural causes. I ended up using this sort of “catch-all” category because I found that there were a large number of random or odd deaths that didn’t really fit into their own category. My original plan after completing this stage of the analysis was to build a map and place a color coded marker at the location of each incident. This could have, in theory, allowed me to draw further conclusions in the realms of epidemiology, criminology, and even possibly psychology, but I was unable to find enough locations within the paper to create a both visually appealing and accurate map. In lieu of this concept, I decided to develop a set of charts to display what percentage of the total deaths each category is. I also plan on breaking the “Other” category up in its own separate pie chart to display the more unusual deaths that Alexandria experienced during the course of the year.
	The way that I obtained my results was honestly really quite simple, but it did require a bit more leg work on my part than it probably should have. I started with a simple Xpath query, searching for all the div tags that contained the word “death” in them. I quickly realized that this would need some refinement. I received huge blocks of text, sometimes hundreds of lines long, and would have to sift through it all to find the information I needed. This would simply not work. I quickly decided to change from searching for div tags with “death” in them p tags with “death” in them. While I was initially worried that this might exclude headers that contained the phrase, they proved to be unnecessary. From what I saw while both working on the paper and conducting my research, the paper was exceptional at reiterating the head line of articles somewhere in the story, or at least in the case of my searches it was. Anyways, this refined search ended up giving me 175 initial results, honestly less than I had expected. I spent the next hour or so going through them, removing the ones that were out of scope or did not pertain to my question from the results until I ended with roughly twenty or so final results from this search and around sixty or so deaths. From here, I used the same search query formula, simply replacing the keyword with different phrases such as “died”, “fatal”, “killed”, “drowned”, “murdered” and a few others until I felt like I had found all of the deaths that occurred in Alexandria. In hindsight, there were probably a few ways that I could have streamlined my search process. For instance, I more than likely could have refined it further or even programmed in a way to exclude certain results that popped up often. However, I partially chose to not do this because I wanted to make sure that I would not miss any relevant deaths that occurred, and partially because I am stubborn and knew how to do this simple search.
